
This directory stores both data (FASTQ & BAM files) and generally used reference files.

#### Note: Do not add shell scripts to this directory.
This directory should be used for project data storage and **NOT** for the storage or execution of scripts. Please organize your scripts into the appropriate analysis directory (the numbered directories).

#### Please do not commit big files like BAM and FASTQ to this repo.
BED files are generally fine, preferred gzip or compressed tar archive esp if they are large. If the repo becomes too large, it cannot be hosted on Github.com. Instead of committing BAM or FASTQ files, you can include scripts instructing the user on how to generate the BAM/FASTQ files for themselves (see `00_Download_and_Preprocessing`). This directory exists to organize those data for convenient high-throughput analysis (see `X_Bulk_Processing`) and standardized structure. 

## Directory Organization:

### data/FASTQ/
Raw sequencing data files go here.

### data/BAM/
Aligned sequencing data goes here for convenient access by the various numbered directories.

### data/RefPT-MyCategory/
Various Reference point (BED format) to perform analyses like Tag Pileups on. Located here for convenient access by the various numbered directories. Generally downloaded from external resources or generated by you (manuscript writer) in one of the numbered directories.

### data/sacCer3_files
Yeast-specific reference files.

#### ChExMix_Peak_Filter_List_190612.bed
Blacklist file to use with NCIS normalization for `sacCer3` data. Copied from [<em>Rossi et al, 2021 (Nature)</em>](https://github.com/CEGRcode/2021-Rossi_Nature/blob/master/02_References_and_Features_Files/ChExMix_Peak_Filter_List_190612.bed).
```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CEGRcode/2021-Rossi_Nature/master/02_References_and_Features_Files/ChExMix_Peak_Filter_List_190612.bed
```

### data/hg19_files
Human-specific reference files.

Run the following commands in the terminal from the `data/hg19_files` directory to download and index the reference genome. (Required to run alignments in `00_Download_and_Preprocessing`, strain checks in `01_Run_GenoPipe`, and for running other sequence analyses and figure generation)
```
wget http://hgdownload.cse.ucsc.edu/goldenpath/hg19/bigZips/hg19.fa.gz -O hg19.fa.gz
gzip -d hg19.fa.gz         # hg19.fa
bwa index hg19.fa          # hg19.fa.amb, hg19.fa.ann, hg19.fa.bwt, hg19.fa.pac, hg19.fa.sa
samtools faidx hg19.fa     # hg19.fa.fai
```

...and there are some other reference files already provided for you within this repository.
```
hg19.info                   # used by ChExMix
hg19_exclude_contig.txt     # used by ChExMix
hg19_background_model.txt   # used by ChExMix
hg19_exclude.bed            # used by tools that need a blacklist
```
